# Dat Consortium Meeting #7

2020/01/22

## Attending

- @RangerMauve
- @dpaez
- cblgh
- paul
- mafintosh
- karissa
- kevin faaborg
- sam
- andrewosh
- frando

## Agenda

- Catch up / Funding updates / Personal Updates
- Summer event
  - thinking about requirements/ideas for the summer event
  - what you'd like to see in terms of structure & attendance & length
- Next meeting: any suggested changes? Who will do facilitation?
- Action Items

## Next Agenda
- Summer event
    - get some possible dates
    - continue the conversation about the event

## Meeting Notes
- **Tech meeting notes**
    - Daemon updates (from Andrew)
        - lot of internal testing (at hyperdivision)
        - private beta
        - internal testing has been going really well
        - share drive at the office like a simple use case, it has been going pretty well too
        - testing FUSE portion too
        - minor edge cases bugs, pretty much solved those
        - daemon is close to a new beta release after major docs pass
        - :rocket:
        - breaking change: publish command
        - added very simple telemetry (eg: active cores in memory, etc)
        - added debugging modes, like running only on memory or in the backoground
        - sparse by default
    - Beaker update (from Paul)
        - Been using the daemon
        - two apps running on https.
            - hyperdrive.network
                - want links to be sharable
                - when do we make something an application that has a url in front of it?
                - that domain followed by the key of the drive you're looking at
                - make hyperdrive's default serving like a website
                - if you want a file exploring experience then you go to hyperdrive.network

                - file explorer inside beaker
                - can use service workers to access offline (needs more research)
            - beaker.network
                - like a RSS/reddit mix
    - HTTPS deployment vs dat?
        - reduces risk to push it on https
        - safer to need to know it works reliably no matter what
        - opens up ability to create gateway behaviors

    - having the sites available offline
        - can be done using service workers
        - if someone wants to help, feel free - paul

    - Questions/General comments
        - Everything is sparse by default (daemon)
        - no download command yet, should be easy to add
        - Frando mentions a use case like a seeder on the cloud. Andrew mentions that it could be done via API.
        - Karissa mentions that they are after a grant that can be used for the CLI or a seeder.

   - Karissa shares some updates about mapeo/kappa-osm
        - Update to hypercore 8 recently, will deploy in production somtime next 6mos.

    - cabal is already on hypercore 8 & will move to hyperswarm at some point
    - sam shares: https://github.com/cliqz-oss/browser-f/pull/1418

---

### Personal updates

- Diego: Working on p2p commons SDK. Doing an update to use the latest hyperdrive and corestore. Doing okay. So far it's been a good journey to the Dat 2 family of modules.
- Andrew: Polishing daemon, getting ready for internal beta.
- cblgh: Cabal-desktop having lots of progress. Nearing a release soon. Joining/leaving channels and notifications. Quit job and working on thesis - might be integrated into cabal - about local subjective moderation. Been quiet on cabal front otherwise. Gonna meet with cinnamon and nettle and talk about Cabal. Oh yeah there's now a cabal open collective for cabal: https://opencollective.com/cabal-club
- Frando: Still working on Sonar. Progressing. Working on fast replication and indexing. Working to not have all feeds open at all times - can run into issues. Thinking about data model, being able to pull in cabal feeds into the search index - still being touched up. Thinking about future funding.
- Karissa: Talked about getting someone to help with organization bylaws for the group. So someone doesn't leave for 2 years and come back saying they're running the show - making sure there's continuity for the group. Talked to Sumana from changeset nyc. Wants to charge 150/h which is a lot. We don't have much in the OpenCollective - trying to run an even so trying to see how much we want to spend. Getting support from CS&S. Talked to Joe - might want to give us one person to come to one meeting a month and help with project coordination and making sure that things get on track or finished and that people are following up with things. Might take that instead of paying for someone. As part of the fiscal sponsorship we're already paying for a person from the nonprofit (CS&S). Applied for MOSS grant (Mozilla Open Source), we did not get it. We had a small grant from them in 2019 that we didn't finish on time. It basically was all finished but we didn't wrap up the last bits. Because we didn't finish on time they didn't want to give us the grant this year. Feel a bit responsible because I was at my fellowship, Joe can speak to what happened as well. We were hoping to fund the CLI development. Hopefully we can still get a grant, just not this round. It was a lot of work for how much it is, it's a strict program and it's not a lot of money. Gonna look for other sources. Kinda upset because we did a lot of work to try to get that grant. Been researching how postgres does these meetings (foundation-related). Anyone that contributes to the core gets invited, there's a larger presense. Something to think this year is how we want to add folks to these meetings. One thing to talk about is a mailing list instead of 22 people on a email thread - if anyone has a VPS that they'd want to set up a mailing list software on (mailman) it'd be great. If anyone has ideas please speak up.
- Kevin: Questions about the update - sorry we didn't get the grant, also general questions about the CLI. Is it correct that the CLI on the website is using old hyper modules?
- Karissa: Yeah
- Kevin: So the new initiative would be to make a new CLI that uses the new modules
- Karissa: Yeah, ideally based on hyperdrive-daemon with a nice UX.
- Kevin: If it's thin, it wouldn't be too hard to also do an electron app
- Karissa: Yeah, it might not be that much work, but it'd be good to take it seriously. Could get it pretty far if we used that approach.
- Kevin: What do we think is a priority or a plan for getting dat CLI / desktop without grant money.
- Karissa: I'd be down to help make that happen.
- Kevin: Me too for electron.
- Frando: We're building a CLI for Sonar, the hyperdrive-daemon also has a CLI. Maybe closer to the process we'll be able to do something.
    - sidenote: also CoBox has a CLI with hyperdrive 10 support, but they aren't on the call today
- Kevin: Working at Ara, ara.ne, making a software suite for creators and fans, can publish their content avoiding 30% platform task. Check out the electron client. Nothing happened in the past two weeks, working on a lot of electron things
- Mauve: finishing up hyperswarm-web. Been working on a [demo app]() using hyperswarm-web. Going to start working on dat-sdk and release 1.0 version (using old dat -1.0-). Docs for the sdk and 1.0 release.
- Paul: Trying to nail down the final mechanisms and UI/UX in Beaker
- Sam: Dat release in Cliqz coming soon. Auto-publish of the dat foundation website. FOSSDEM beginning in Feb, gonna be talking about Dat stuff there.

### Summer event planning

- Karissa: My interest in this helping is to help make it happen, talking to people, shuffling money around if we need to pay people, talking to people on the ground and keeping folks in the loop. Curious to see what folks want from the event. Assuming a lot of folks can come. One question: Do you want to be big and short - a public part of it, do you want more like a work retreat? Like a 7 or 5 day thing - a hack week.
- Mauve: maximize serendipity and collaboration. unconference. show up and think about what we want to talk about and get into groups and collaborate together and hack away on stuff. i was at the redecentralize unconf and that was my first and it was amazing. t he unconference style: talking to people is the conference and how do you easily form groups
- Karissa: Funny you mentioned redecentralized - we could reach out to them to have them run the conference in the way that they ran theirs. They were at the last event we had in Berlin. They would probably show up.
- CBLGH: +1 to unconferences, I co-hosted 3 last year and it was well received
- paul: when? Eary mid summer ish? It may affect where we are as a community based on that timing. It'd be a different story in the next month vs three to six months from now. We'd be trying to expand the community a lot more, expect more people than usual. It'd change the vibe.
- Mauve: Can you elaborate on growing community
- Paul: New versions are coming out, hopefully the toolset will come to a point where we can sustain growth and the product will stick. It'd be good to see people downstream from the tools working on it.
- Mauve: Could you clarify "we"
- Paul: I guess the beaker team, but everyone else as well.
- Karissa: Yeah, I agree. It'd be nice to get more eyes on things and meet in greet folks like y'all. It'd be nice to have if we do it in six months.
- Paul: How many people will we have introducing to the tech or more people that are already established.
- Frando: I agree to many things you said - I'm not sure abotu numbers, I could do wild guesses but it's hard at the moment - how many peopl would come to a dat conferences? I also want an unconference where people hack together, kinda like DTN where people met together. Maybe having a combination of them - Have a weeklong of hacking / unconference and organizations and space, but not planned slots. Maybe a bit smaller for people that already know - and on the weekend having two days of more like talks and demos - more of a confernece. A combination of these two could work really well. People could dive in and the unconference part could be great.
- Karissa +1
- frando: weekend talks.. since you don't know how many people would come, then try something like a presale or rsvp so we can see what the tendancy is from how many people. setting the dates should be the first thing
- Diego: We can do like a twitter poll or something similar that we can share and make some questions about a possible dat event this summer… to see some expectations and gather some feedback
- cblgh: I think Frando and everyone's comments are really sensible. If we want something a bit smaller scale because it's hard to predict - maybe we can have a few unconferences at the same time. Some people in North Americas, some in South, some in Europe. Maybe a reasonable decentralization where there's one person in each area that's responsible for the unconference in their area. people responsible in their area basically inviting people and making sure they come, having food. Maybe a precursor to a DTN style event. Paulo wanted to keep DTN alive - maybe we can combine with that.
- Paul: I wanted to ask - what do we realistically think our budget is like - that could determine the approach we can take.
- Karissa: We'll have at least 6k EU - just from grants. I think that we can go pretty far to ask for some folks to pitch in - especially some of the bigger grants like the SHuttleworth funded group - you can ask for things here and there the way it works. We could ask to get them to pitch in 3-5k.
- cblgh: Link?
- karissa: https://shuttleworthfoundation.org/
    - to clarify: they offer this only for groups that are already funded by shuttleworth
- Paul: I haven't run a conference but I'm guessing it's pricy. If it's 6-8 range, I'm not sure how much space would cost or food. The safe way would be an unconf - setting expectations correctly. If you come don't expect it to be polished
- Karissa: Depends on the size, if it's 50 or less we can probably get a space / food donated to us. Being a non-profit we get a lot of nice folks.
- mauve: nice to have in person at least, but unconferences as well would be good.
- Diego: Agree, doing an international event communicates to others, if we do something 6 months from now, we can be in a position where we can show dat as stable and reliable - it's a good opportunity to show to others.
- cblgh: Organized 3 unconferences, looked at when we had free space. Paid out of pocket - made food ourselves, recouped the cost through donations. People love to attend, even if they don't ahve prior history. If we have both where people setup up in their area, it shouldn't be that hard. Then maybe do 200 to 300 bucks, it shouldn't be hard to budget.
- Karissa: I think doing unconferences in areas is good. Having it too close to the international conference would result in peopel not wanting to go and going to the regional one. Regarding budget, if we could spend on people's flights and hotels, like getting one big airbnb, it'd be good to use budget for. One of the benefits of having a public facing portion - it being a bit more organized than an unconfernece - if you have speakers, you might be able to get their companies to pay for them to talk since it'll be for exposure / marketing. We could try to go for something like that. It might be more work, but we can probably do it in a budget-neutral way. Maybe get companies to sponsor, to get a bigger space. Once you get a bigger space you need to pay more. But there are benefits from having a larger space and meeting more people / seeing talks. I agree the most important part is getting some dates set and structure of how many days so people can start blocking out their calendars - right now peopel are scheduling vacations.
- Sam: Agree with what Karissa is saying - this talk of unconferences sounds more like meetups - having distributed official meetups would be good - it could be free, companies putting them on for one day events. There's also hackathons - Mozilla Global Hackathon, a couple of years ago we made a couple of rooms in our office availbe for anyone that wanted to hack in our office. If we're going to spend on a proper event, then it'd make sense if it was a bit bigger. All these things aren't something people would travel for. It needs to be big enough and have headline speakers that'd make sense. It'd make sense to put it along other conferences, having citical mass around and cheaper to attach. The other Mozilla event in October (MozFest) has siderooms that are easy to get for small tech groups.
- Diego: I was thinking that it'd be important to strategically arrange things closer to a similar event, also I was thinking it depends on how we name this, if we name it a Dat event only - it could make things more difficult for getting more money, but if we call it a decentralization event it could help us connect with others and get more help.
- cblgh: Regarding what sam touched on, do we know of other conferences that we can touch on, like Mozzfest. Scuttlebutt has one, but it's in Brazil. It'd be closer for Diego at least. Do people know of any conferences on the map?
- Diego: One thing related to events, in South America you can do more with less money.
- Paul: Wanted to +1 what Sam and Alex said. I'd say that having one larger one would be nice. It's harder to put together, getting meetups / hackathons are one thing, but having an event would get more eggs in one basket instead of spreading out. I wouldn't be able to find anyone in Austin, I'd have to go to the west coast or EU. Wanted to +1 Alex regarding to attaching to an event.
- Sam: Had a look at what JS conferences are this summer in EU, not sure if anyone attends these: There's a few of them happening, but they're all quite mainstream. Dunno if there's a more alternative set of conferences that are more hidden away. If there's DTN that'd be really good, it was great last year. If anyone has a good source it'd be good to get a shortlist
- Karissa: Agree with Paul - if we're gonna spend 6-8 k largly on food and planes, then doing it and making it bigger would be worth it / attachng to another confernce. Not sure about DTN itself - it was a lot of energy and people get tired. Just to mention it. DTN was like 3 days and everyone wanted to be engaged. One thing to note - not a bad thing, but it could be a really long stretch. One other thing - dats roots are in science, so attaching to a science conferences or infiltrating something like Mozfest sounds exciting - potentially lots of folks that haven't heard about dat yet.
- Mauve: We should have a GH issue where peopel can post conferences we can piggyback onto.
- Mafintosh: Has there been discussion about the type of event we were aiming for? Is it gonna be a conference or bootcamp?
- Karissa: People wanted to do both - have unstructured time, but it's important to also have structure - having a public event, at least a day or two. Having the weekend be a public thing, and having weekdays being work week.
- Mafintosh: We do that a lot in node core, we have a conference and then we also have a collaborative conference where peopel meet at smaller venues and does workshops and stuff. Maybe we can do that.
- Karissa: Speaking of nodeconf, it'd be cool to see if anyone there would wanna help or give resources
- Mafintosh: I know people there, one thing I know is it's really really expensive, massive deficites every year. Might wanna keep it small - it's a lot of work to even do small ones - we should be realistic in terms of scale also. Get some dats down
- Karissa: Anyone against having a weekend of public stuff and 4-5 days of collaborative stuff
- Diego: To add one thing - for small conferences, if we say the public event is a two day thing, have the first day for workshops or soemthings, the other day for talks. Two days of talks would be ambitious.
- Mafintosh: We could do one day talk, one day summit, could be good to fit in a weekend for people with jobs.
- Karissa: yeah, and people for whom this is their job could cowork and collaborate.
- Mafintosh: I'd prefer earlier this year than later
- Karissa: Diego said, it'd be good to do a poll, have some date options,mauve wnated a GH issue
- Mauve: Why earier than later?
- Mafintosh: Sooner than later because there's a lot of new stuff coming out, it'd be good to use the momentum instead of waiting 7 months. Getting feedback and excitement, and doing another one next year
- Karissa: Earliest would be late April, should have at least two months in advance, could consider doing it in March. The earlier you do it the more work in a small period.
- Mafintosh: I was thinking may/april, just not September
- Karissa: Could probably figure out dates async, and then finalize them. Have a deadline for when we want to figure out the date.
- Frando: i'd vote for june or july to give planning etc more time and still be in summer. +1 karissa, issue plus settling in two weeks


### End of meeting

- Diego: There's some action items, these are the results of this meeting. Frando mentioned setting up the mailing list. Mauve mentioned having a GH issue for tracking conferences. Finally, we should get some dates before the next meeting. We can also use this time to prepare the agenda for next meeting. Guessing it'll be related to the summer event.
- Pfrazee: Will lead figuring out date ranges. Have we settled on strucutre?
- Karissa: A day of talks, a day of not talks, and a few days of people that do Dat for a job collaborating.
- Pfrazee: So like 1-3 days of collab, one of talks, one of hangout. If people ask about location do we have any vibe on that?
- Karissa: Did a suggestion of doing in EU, maybe hanging off another conference, else people might want to come if it's in the summer in EU. Brazil would be good, expensive to get to, but easier to host.
- Paul: I like EU more, better than America right now.
- Mafintosh: JS Congress in Munich in April. Munich is quite nice for flights.
- Karissa: Sam said he could offer thir space for one day. Localted in Munich. Lets put that on the list of potentials, should get at least two or three
- Paul: How to timebox?
- Karissa: 5th - two weeks
- Karissa: Wanted add an agenda item, any feedback for the meeting. Diego did a great job.
- Diego: I can facilitate next time. Thank you very much, we have info in the notes, will share it with you via email. We'll see you on Feb 5th.

## Action Items
* frando sets up mailing list for foundation group at riseup.net
    * maybe two .. one for foundation matters (invite-only?) and one for comm-comm (general public discussion)
* mauve: GH issue where people can post conferences we can piggyback onto
* pfrazee: get some possible dates for the event, lock in dates for big event by feb 5

# Next Meeting Wednesday, 5 Feb
