# Dat Consortium Meeting #7

2020/02/05

## Attending

- @dpaez
- @pfrazee
- @andrewosh
- Kevin Faaborg
- Kira
- Jessica Hardwicke @CS&S
- Mauve

## Actions Items

### Previous Action Items Review

- Frando was going to set up the mailing list, mauve will follow up
- piggyback conferences, had a [twitter thread](https://twitter.com/RangerMauve/status/1221555008187047942), not conclusive.
- Paul made a [spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1C05PNuP_IZy5k6p3IYRQ0_F65LjPTzli3MWTYwV2b08/edit#gid=0) to track the date: [github repo](https://github.com/datproject/organization/pull/13). Need to find conferences to piggyback off of. Should get more info. Sam from Cliqz said they could donate space if we're in Munich.
- Frando: Should continue with these topics, get more feedback from community. We should keep these for the next meeting. There is some progress, which is nice.

## Agenda
- Summer event
    - get some possible dates
    - continue the conversation about the event

## Next Agenda

- Paul will facilitate the next meeting
- Talk more about event (particularly the agenda and how to split up work)
- Talk about CS&S integration.

## Meeting Notes

## **Foundation meeting notes**

#### Catching up

- Diego: Working at Geut, doing p2p stuff. Using the dat2 modules (hyperdrive, corestore, hyperswarm). https://github.com/p2pcommons/sdk-js
- Jessica: Working at CS&S since December, hired as the sponsored project services manager, interfaces with fiscally sponsored projects at CS&S. Dat is in a special situation because it was formed first and then CS&S was made after. Dat is technically not part of thr FSP program. Looking at the future for dat and what services CS&S can provide. From Portland, Oregon, now in Seattle. Worked in academia studying microbial-something and bioinformatics. Worked on genomics. Working in a lab. Fun bringing order to a lab. Like bringing order to things and that's why I'm here.
- Andrew: Working on Hyperdrive with Mathias and on Beaker with Paul. Did a beta release of hyperdrive-daemon. Making stability improvements, exposing more things in the CLI to do more testing with groups and get more info. Improving stats interfaces when daemon is running, the peers you're connected to and upload/download stats. Building tools and small modules around the daemon to make it easy for people to use hyperdrives hosted by it. Kinda like a one way version of the dat CLI tool where you can only get stuff out of the dat that you're hosting. Today working on other modules around getting notifications from drives in the FUSE interface to pop up on your desktop. Gearing up towards the beta launch.
    - links: https://github.com/andrewosh/hypercopy
    - https://github.com/andrewosh/hyperdrive-group-notifier
- Kevin: Using hyper stack for delivery. Our electron app has etherium in it. People can sell their albums without needing a centralized platform. Website is ara.one, working on the electron portion of it.
- Kira: Working at Digital Democracy and Cabal, building maps and chat respectively. Haven't been in a while want to catch up
- Mauve: Finishing dat-sdk release. Going to work with Jessica (CS&S)improving dat foundation resources access for outsiders/collaborators.
- Paul: In Austin Texas, working on beaker. trying to get keyboard shortcuts to work. Updates: Added versioning support to the browser (certificate info in the slide, can scroll through version). Using dog fooding to drive development. Added page commands, the terminal that can open in the side panel can now have commands defined by the page you're viewing. You can add stuff to the webterm and stuff like help will come with it so you can go through it more easily. Developers can provide commands to perform actions or just help development. In addition to the tooling for making hyperdrives, there's precreated scaffolds with websites that have some functionality. There's a wiki, and a codepen-style editor, and a module one, kind of like a github repo, baked in some tools: A build process, testing process and a demo page. The tests can execute kind of like an index.html. Can run all your tests in the browser. For the build tooling it can use the page commands. You can have scripts in the module and the web terminal can run those scripts. Trying to make that awesome for people. Got a dev diary where I'm going to demonstrate that. General usability stuff other than that.

#### Summer event

- Diego: We need to figure out the date, maybe we can get the event close to another event. We could talk a bit more around expectations around the event. Karissa isn't here, might have more information. Any ideas or comments regarding possible dates or a location? Last meeting we mentioned maybe april/may even June as possible months for the event.
- Mauve: Looking at the survey, early may or early june could be good. A few people have april as no-go dates.
- Pfrazee: June seems like the least conflicted.
- Mauve: I like the idea of having more structured stuff for new folks, and less structure for hacking. We should start thinking about the agenda, think about who wants to talk. Follow up via email and maybe start a new IRC channel?
- Frando: We can talk about the potential agenda stuff in this call. Any topics regarding the structure of the event? Last meeting we talked about having a few extra days leading up the event for hacking together more closely.

#### CS&S

- Jessica: We should start thinking about Dat becoming an FSP, thinking if people want to. Part of the requirements are to have formal governance structures. It'd be good if we had more docs from CS&S, but it's something to start thinking about.
- Mauve: Wanna come to the next meeting? We could maybe have an agenda item to discuss this stuff and you and I can put something together describing it.

## **Tech meeting notes**

- Andrew: Any questions about the daemon?
- Pfrazee: Lets do a rundown about what got fixed lately? Could be interesting to share before Q&A
- Andrew: First new thing is caching. Since we share one corestore across all hypercores in the daemon, we can use this to create a shared cache in the daemon. Right now it onyl cached tree nodes and not the data, saw perf hits in hypertrie. Thought it'd be good to do a data cache to speed up. Hard to do per hypercore when you want a max for all hypercores. Got a new powerful cache object to all hypercores which has a cache-like interface. Can set max values, large for the daemon. Can now cache hypertrie nodes, has good perf improvements. Can simplify other middle modules, can remove hyperdrive cache and rely more on hypercore. Gonna measure how good of a change this is. Other thing that popued up when testing was extremely large directory sizes. When doing a first sync you might need lots of roundtrips to do the initial lookup, views that might issue stat calls, you can get tonnes of roundtrips which leads to high latency. Larger dirs when you do an ls with thousands of files, you can get 5 second lag for a node that's within 200ms ping time. Can send hints for a hypertrie path, can then fetch them yourself and verify them so there's no security issue. Can massively reduce the number of roundtrips. One roundtrip to do the initial lookup, then a bunch of things sent over. Those are the biggest updates relating to performance.
- Pfrazee: You were saying earlier that the codebase was getting pretty stable?
- Andrewosh: We've had daemons running for 4-5 days with no issues in the FUSE interface
- Pfrazee: You were saying there were N days before the last catastrophic data loss
- Andrew: yeah one test was to have everyone have directories and mount on each other. One thing we did was do an LS. Mathias has a last incident file and we can look when that was. The time keeps getting larger every day.
- Kevin: what platforms were you testing on?
- Andrew: This is on Mac and Linux. We don't have windows machines to test on. We have a handful of issues recently. Particularly not related to FUSE. Not going to support FUSE on windows. The daemon without FUSE needs to work on Windows.
- Kevin: I'm mostly on Windows. Our customers are mostly mobile or Windows. That platform is totally important to use.
- Andrew: Same
- Kevin: Lemme know how to help
- Andrew: Gonna look at the recent issue on github to see if there are any blockers. Once Beaker comes around it'll be a really big test since that'll have to run on Windows. We don't have too many apps to test on Windows. Running the test suite and getting it all to pass on windows would be good.
- Mauve: backwards compat?
- Paul: has an strategy for this which has an option for updating to latest drive.
- Andrew: Ideal beta launch date, kinda hard to come across, going by milestones. Once we get a few days without incidents we could start working on docs, figured out we need more debugging tools. Guessing debugging would take another week and then we'd shift to documentation and then looking at a release.

