# Dat Consortium Meeting #9

2020/02/19

## Attending

- Pfrazee (Facilitating)
- cblgh
- Sam Macbeth
- Mauve
- Frando
- mafintosh
- diego paez
- kevin faaborg

## Actions Items

### Previous Action Items Review

* **Mailing list**
  mailing lists were created (by Frando): dat-consortium@lists.riseup.net for everyone in the consortium meetings, dat-commcomm@lists.riseup.net as an open-for-everyone community mailing list. Frando can subscribe everyone in the current consortium mails to the consortium list and add mods. Signup page for the commcomm list is https://lists.riseup.net/www/subscribe/dat-commcomm

## Agenda

- Talk more about event (particularly the agenda and how to split up work)
- Talk about CS&S integration.

## Action Items

 - Move to mailing list
 - Look over the CS&S Dat document and leave comments https://hackmd.io/yn9I9NPHSayCN11jhG4sMA?view
 - Generate list of people interested in being a part of the advisory committee
 - cblgh is going to pick a date for the event based on the spreadsheet (https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1C05PNuP_IZy5k6p3IYRQ0_F65LjPTzli3MWTYwV2b08/edit#gid=0)

## Next Agenda

 - Frando facilitating
 - Discuss Dat Consortium membership
 - Lock down roles & responsibilities for the event

## Meeting Notes

## Foundation meeting notes

#### Catching up

- Pfrazee: Working on Beaker
- Alexander: Working on Cabal, and thesis on moderation
- Frando: Working on Sonar project. Building a distributed database for file metadata, based on hyperdrive storage and kappa-db for metadata db. Getting stack and interface ready, hoping to share a video soon-ish. Also involved in the dat rust implementation as a side project
- Diego: From Geut, collaborating on the p2p commons project. Upgrading to dat 2 modules.
- Mauve: Working on dat sdk, datdot and Natakanu. lots of dat-based projects!
- Sam: From Cliqz, working on dat integration with browser. Playing with other dat related things, prototyped bookmark sync in browsers using kappa-core and discovery-swarm-webrtc
- Mathias: Writing all the hyper stuff

#### Mailing list

- Pfrazee: Are we switching officially?
- Mauve: I think we should switch, it's been hard to manage the CC'd list so far
- Pfrazee: Agreed
- Frando: I agree, I would propose to use the Dat Consortium list as the mailing forum for the group that's currently in these meetings. I propose we discuss who's in these meetings, for now I propose taking everyone in the list now and add them. Make everyone a moderator and discuss how membership works in these meetings. Comm comm list was created that was for everyone, people in the consortium and otherwise.
- Pfrazee: +1 to using mailing list, should have agenda item for membership discussion
- Mauve: +1 to agenda item, something that should be figured out.
- Same: +1 to mailing list

#### Summer event

- Pfrazee: We should talk about the event and how to split up work.
- cblgh: Is there a date set?
- Pfrazee: No, but there's a document
- Frando: We agree it should be soon. We should go and choose a date that makes sense and get it set for next meeting and have people raise last objections.
- Pfrazee: We should designate a date picker
- cblgh: I can put together a few proposals and send it on the mailing list
- pfrazee: We should figure out how to split work
- mauve: Who has done events before and what kind of work is there to split?
- cblgh: What sort of size will we have? 200ish?
- pfrazee: It's in the air
- cblgh: Figure out if its unconforence style, figure out snacks, good to have it be vegan, cook the food or buy in food? It'd be good to have an ending gathering / dinner, should book a venue and consider how many people? This is outside of organizing travel, beaurcracy for flying people in and paying them, managing speakers, creating a poster / website / outward facing PR thing. Getting info out, food during the event, event stuff like who speeks when, schedule unconference or not, last dinner thing
- sam: One thing missed is tech, if we want to film talks and livestream them, there's a lot of work to do there, figure out how to do the sound properly if we wanted to do that
- cblgh: getting recordings out is so much harder, it usually sticks on someone's harddrive forever. Livestreaming is easier for shitty setups, but you need to have one person to actuallt get that done
- mauve: WHo has time for this stuff?
- cblgh: Yeah, depends on deciding on the format and when time would need to be. I'd be interested
- diego: same as Alex, it'd be nice to know things before. I guess the location would be in EU, the help that I can offer would likely be remote
- Frando: It depends on the format and timing, but I'm up to contributing some time. Depending on the location, as things are looking towards EU, in any case you'd need a few people that are at the place a few days earlier, and I can imagine being part of a local group, depends on the location
- Kevin: THis is about the Dat event? I definately hope to attend, not sure how I could help, but would be intereested if I could be effective.
- Martin: I'd love to help. I live in Japan so it might be hard if it's not in the summer like July/August, any online tasks or homepage stuff I can help
- Mathias: Down to help, very busy, but I can help pick up topics and some practical stuff
- Mauve: Down to put together a doc of stuff that needs to be done and coordinate people to commit to that stuff
- Sam: If it's EU based, up for coming along before and helping with setup and teardown, can contribute to hosting, if it's in Munich, I can help looking at venues or catering and stuff like that as a local.
- Pfrazee: Pretty busy right now, but up to show up early and help with on the ground setup

#### CS&S integration

 - Ranger: last time JEss from CS&S was here to tell us we havent really been using CS&S this year, in part bc the dat foundation isnt a formal fiscally-sponsored project like the others. Karissa/ranger/jess have been discussing how to fix that.
     - Shared document giving overview of this: https://hackmd.io/yn9I9NPHSayCN11jhG4sMA?view
 - Ranger: What the formal relation is? Responsibilities, resources available. Wants to involve people in the consortium so they have direct access. Grants can be administered via CS&S, they take 15% in admin fees. All websites and branding and related IP is owned by CS&S and has to be retained by a non-profit. They are also interested in finding leads for grant funding. They also have folks who are good at event planning.
 - Ranger: it would also be good to give consortium members access to all digital resources. Basically looking to give decision-making and management powers to the members so that the project doesn't lose the ability to make progress.
 - Ranger: RE funding, not 100% clear what we have atm due to accounting software changes but it's somewhere around 10-20k. Need to decide how to use it: maybe apportion grants within the community? Maybe spend it on the dat event?

## Tech meeting notes

- Mathias: There's been a lot of work going in. Performance, bug fixes. If you're using stuff update it sicne there's lots of updates. Working a tonne on this new flush API for all the network stacks. It's a problem we've had since day zero: Making it eaiser to program. For example where you have a hypercore and you want to query somthing on it, when do you know when it's queried. Like if you do an HTTP request and want to get thedata, on a p2p network it's harder. You have a DHT and peers, when do you consider yourself bootstrapped. There's been a lot of issues over time. Do you wait for peers to come, do you wait for handshakes. Been working on this in a new API pimitive on the swarm called flush. API hooks into discovery primitives. You can call a callback and when you call it all pending DHT queries have been flushed and all results have finished. This means you don't need timeouts. THis is powerful because if you want to set up a hyperdrive that if there's anyone on the network with new stuff you need, you can spin up a swarm, join the swarm, wait for the swarm to flush and after that you're guaranteed to be up to date, and you can do a readdir and know if there's anything new. That's something that will be good.
- Pfrazee: This sounds like something I'd need for Beaker. You need this when you want to get the initial data on a page load
- Mathias: You can do this more linearly.
- Pfrazee: Is there a guarantee on the upper limit on how much time it will take?
- Mathias: Worst case is waiting fro all the timeouts, worst case is 5sec for DHT, 10sec for connections. Worst case is 10 sec. We added a bunch of heuristics to work around it. For the DHT in practice worst case is 1 sec. If you're getting data you don't wait for long timeouts, at most wait like 1 sec. Added a bunch of advanced heuristics. Can bring it down to 5 sec in worst case, best case much much faster. Like 200 400 ms. It's really fast. It's a pretty big change that was added. Added an API to all methods, ifAvailable. If it's true it'll do flush. The call with return after a flush, or return with an error. If anyone on the network has the data, you'll get it. Been using this API to do a faster timeout.
- Pfrazee: I assume if you have local data, it'll use that
- Mathias: Yeah, if you have it locally it'll use that. THe tricky part is the update call. It'll check if anyone on the network has data. It's the only one that isn't idempotent. All the gets you either have it or not, but theupdate waits for the network
- Frando: Sounds very interesting. How good will this operation scale for large sparse swarms? Say you have a core or drive that's popular, a few thousand people joining the sewarm. They all have the archive sparsely synched and you want to download some data. If I understand you'd need to connect to everyone and check. Is there somethign that would make that part easier.
- Mathias: Flush doesn't affect that. All it does is wait for discovery work to finish. Doesn't solve the problem you're taling about. The swarm won't connect to more than 40 peers which are randomly distributed. That use case is the main one we're focusing on it. The main way we will make it better, using something called peer exhange form bittorrent. You can use an extension to ask a peer if they know anybody that has the block. But that's not really part of the flush. The flush is given the current setup, check if there are more peers comming right now. So if you have that gossip thing on top you can still wait for the swrm to flush, but it doesn't solve it right now.
- Martin: QUestion: how can this be visaluzed, it'd be good if there was a constant or viarable to control the timeout.
- Mathias: Yeah, it's a no brainer to expose the max waiting time. Paul mentioned the Beaker use case, you can load the current version and wait for a flush. There's still UX to figure out, before it was just setting a timer, now it's a bit better. On that note, another thing that's important for UX - yesterday we made an API for detecting networking health from local view. You can figure out if you have very good p2p capabilities, hole punchability. These APIs are bieng exposed in the swarm and are easier to use. If you want an app to see if p2p is gonna work or if oyu need a relay, you can use the hole punchable API, which is kinda cool.
- Pfrazee: Another optimization was the trie hints extension.
- Mathias: That's not released yet. We made a massive update for hypertrie with an extension. Helps with high latency connections. Once we have the release it'll reduce to one round trip for queries. It'll be huge if you're using folder listing. Potentially listing a big folder could use 10 sec, but with it it'd go down to 100ms. Basically no added cost, but withthe same security guarantees

- Martin: Working on trying to get dat working in react-native, have resoruces to try to get help. Can get in touch with martin@consento.org.
- Sam: What part do you want?
- Martin: Networking and Hyperdrive.
- Sam: Version?
- Martin: I'd b happy with the new one or older one. Not sure how the general update plan for the while organization is.
- Mathais: The complexity for the new and old one is the same
- Sam: Main issue in RN is getting the bundler to understand all these node dependencies and to substitute the right ones when you don't have a native implementation. It'd be good to use nodejs-mobile, might need more for new Dat
- Martin: Looking to sponsore that. Need to figure out what needs to be done. There's a nodejs-native thing we want to use, but not sure about it.
