# Dat consortium meeting #10

2020/03/05

## Attending

- Frando (facilitating)
- Andrew Osheroff
- Alex cblgh
- Diego Paez
- Jessica Hardwicke (CS&S)
- Kevin Farboorg
- Martin Heidegger
- Mathias Buus
- Ranger Mauve
- Paul Frazee
- Sam Macbeth

## Previous action items

 - Move to mailing list (done)
 - Look over the CS&S Dat document and leave comments https://hackmd.io/yn9I9NPHSayCN11jhG4sMA?view
 - Generate list of people interested in being a part of the advisory committee
 - cblgh is going to pick a date for the event based on the spreadsheet (https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1C05PNuP_IZy5k6p3IYRQ0_F65LjPTzli3MWTYwV2b08/edit#gid=0)

## Agenda

- Lock down roles and responsibilities for the Dat event, discuss next steps in Event planning
- Dates for Dat event, talk about thoughts regarding postponing due to COVID-19
- Discuss how to move forward with a collective ownership of the relationship of Dat to CS&S
- Discuss Dat Consortium membership


## Action items

- cblgh: Put together poll for dates and event formats
    - pick which time intervals you can attend a physical event: https://www.strawpoll.me/19484840
    - pick what kind of event you would prefer: https://www.strawpoll.me/19484885

## Next agenda
-
- revisiting poll
- decision on if there are any blockers to forming dat advisory committe under cs&s
- talk about what is dat event

## Meeting notes

### Intros:

- Franz: Working on Sonar, kappa-core
- Andrew: Working on hyperdrive-daemon, working on documentation, working with paul on group software
- cblgh: Involved with Cabal and Kappa-core. Released new build of cabal desktop which was broken. Fixed it and re-released. Recently merged more granular event emitters in the app. e.g. When a new message is received or peers added gets an event. Should enable more efficient clients.
- Diego: Working on p2pcommons project
- Jessica: Working with CS&S, sponsored project services manager. Here for questions about the advisory commitee and formalizing the relationship with CS&S in general
- Kevin: Working on Ara.one, desktop app based on electron with Hyper modules and Etherium parts. Allows podcasters to get donations to their podcast without platforms defunding them or taking them down if they say something they didn't like, also artists don't have to pay 30% to spotify because it's more decentralized. Got on first exchange on Fridsay. LAtoken.com liquid assets token, trade etherium for Ara. Writing medium posts and tweeting. At SF, going to indieweb meeting at Mozilla.
- Martin: Consento, private store. Encrypted that allows you to keep private data for yourself. Runs on React Native, doesn't connect to Dat at the moment. Working on that.
- Mathias: Working on hyperdrive with Andrew. Working on same stuff Andrew mentioned.
- Mauve: Finished contract with Dat FOundation, working on Natakanu - file transfer for Indiginous groups in Canada, also helping with Datdot which is kinda like Filecoin but without cryptocurrency and less central
- Paul: Working on beaker browser, writing a lot of docs. Lots of bug fixing, aiming to bring somebody that's not on the team for groups thing
- Sam: Put Dat integration into the CLiqz browser. Released another dat seeder library based on sams-dat-api, in addition to discovery-swarm, seeds to discovery-swarm-webrtc. Helps with better connections to networks. 

### Event Planning

- Frando: There's the TODO list we could go through. There's the question of the dates, and rules and responsabilities. Also talka bout coronavirus maybe postponing the event.
- Frando: Start with Coronavirus question.
- cblgh: Some background on it: Coronavirus has been on the news, lots of events have been cancelled, more countries are having it. It'd be good to raise the question. Do people have thoughts abou this. I'd be a question about outbreaks in Sweden or Germany or the US. Maybe we could go down the list. For me, I'm curious what people think. I'm thinking a later date would be better because we'd have more info as to how this progressed. A later date could be later in August, but no specific date has been proposed.
- Paul: Maybe we should talk about doing a virtual conference instead if we're concerned about the virus?
- Sam: Agree that this makes the later dates more appealing so we can see waht happens and has more time to cancel if things get worse. Reports seem to say that the summer will help with the spread. Later in the summer could help things with that.
- Franz: Will go down the lsit
- Andrew: I think a virtual conference would make sense. No other thoughts on that.
- Diego: Thinking later in August could be reasonable to give us time. Saw somewhere that companies were thinking about starting again after June. Relates to the summer.
- Jessica: Not sure why there was a reason to do earlier in the year. THink it'd be good to postpone not only for Coronavirus but also to do more fundraising and promotion. I organized an event and that took a lot of time in addition to locking the venue. More into in-person conferences, but also into the idea of people attending digitally
- Kevin: Second later in person event or virtual event, both sound good.
- Martin: Not sure if online is the best. I can watch webinars and there's youtube channels, it's not much different, not much different from browsing content. Getting additional value might be hard. Was going to go to a conference that got cancelled due to the coronavirus, was stressful. Regarding date: thinking that as horrible as it gets it'll get better. In favor of July/August because that's when I'll be in EU. Saying friends in Netherlands, if there's something in August they won't be able to participate because it's holiday time
- Mathias: Doing it soon is out of the question, doing virtual is good. Summer isn't good for me because going on summer vacation, could go from there and see.
- Mauve: More for in-person thing. Virtual conference would mean video calls and broadcast talsk - would miss out on a lot of in-person interaction that makes up a conf. or maybe VR? otherwise - august would look 
- Frando: Never did a virtual conference that's more than a virtual work meeting. Would miss the in person interaction a lot - makes most of the event for me. Still interested in having an actual event - if the virus prevents in spring, lets do it later. Not good at predicing public health, august is not a good time for EU folks, mid august people are usually out, july or september could be good times. In Germany only big big events are cancelled. Events with thousands are being cancelled, but smallers aren't. DOn't know much to do with public health though.
- Frando: What should we do next?
- Mauve: people that proposed could give details
- Paul: Not much experience with virtual conf, but maybe something like: shared chatroom on irc as a shared lobby, then maybe twitch or youtube with a schedule of talks and workshops. plus website etc. kinda like a live code training session. you have a chat with an audicence so there's quite some interaction possible. makes it particularily nice for workshops.
- Sam: Recently saw that there's several platforms offering this as a service (Virutal Conferences as a Service). Supports different formats: keynote talk where someone talks, chat channels that are like corridor tracks. It's a possability for a very lightweight conference that doesnt' need much organizing
- cblgh: Has anyone attended a virtual conference that was good. Could see hw you'd combine live streaming with chat
- Martin: Haven't attended one but will attend one on Friday, one person in the office I work at is building a platform for a paid online conference withe goal of getting paid entrance tickets for each session and only people that paid can access the streams giving it exclusivity
- Frando: One thought I had regarding the dat event: Having not one conference but a bunch of small unconference style events. There could be actual meetups across the world where people get together for the virutal conference, not everyone is in their room, people that live together could have events. Peopel can get togheter but it's not just one big conference.
- Mauve: Would be concerned about having just videos, best part is folks talking togehter. Like the idea of decentralied conference. Thinking about doing that in Ottawa and Montreal communities where they bridge together. VR is really nice because you can show slides, but also have people go off to the side and have little conversations.
- Martin: I organized a NodeSchool internatioanl day in 2016. We tried to have one day where all nodeschools in the world would have an event, we had a video call session where all the differentl locations would invite people. large reach, in the end had like 2000 ppl attending in all locations together. was nice because it was all over the world. international connections. would open the possibility to have local people more activated. the local groups would get more visiblity. it lacked in good presentations though, also it was a lot of effort. if the concept were to be improved it would allow people from our community to have intro presentations. eg if mafintosh would give a 20min intro plus qa that might be something nice
- Frando: To summarize: Lots of people still want physical meetups. There are positive experiences of virtual conferences. Maybe we should plan an event in Autumn and do a virtual event in June?
- Sam: At the moment we have the 5 proposals that were sent, this discussion is saying maybe we shouldn't do the earlier ones. Two of the earlier ones did well for beginning and end of june. This discussion is saying June is maybe too early, there's also disadvantages in August - everyone in EU is on holiday
- Mauve: Maybe we should have another poll?
- Frando: WOuld someone want to put together a poll?
- clbgh: Won't put as much in, made a poll for dates. Will make another one for conference types

### CS&S & Dat

- Frando: The question about CS&S: The project would become a formal 
- Mauve: Some stuff: TODO get it from the transcript
- Jessica: Regarding emails with Karissa and Mauve. A lot of projects make it pretty clear with a single leader, the teams are smaller usually too. Aprpeicate the challenge of the distributed aspect of Dat. Helped think about what CS&S expects from advisory comittees. Still working on laying out and giving clarity on why certain people need to be accountable for certain things. Reason we say you need a comitee chair is liability for spending excess funding or releasing funding. Related to liability and accountability. Establishing who to communicate with regarding questions about funding and bills for who to talk to. If there's a path forward we should amke it clear from the get go, make it possible to make changes and update for rotaing roles. If anyone has specific questions, ask me or email after the meeting. Our comittess at other projects are all different. SOme are small, some are large. SOme attend strategy meetings - all of the members. Some projects it's just me and the project manager. THere's a lot of different ways to do it for CS&S.
- Sam: Chairman role question: Because they take liability is there requirement on having a US resident.
- Jessica: No requirement for US resident. Regarding liability, less strict and legal sense of the word, more about who to talk to
- Frando: Regardin mauve's question we should see who's interested in helping with the application, who wants to be a chair or member. First question who in this group is up to be a part of the advisory comittee.
- Sam: One more question from the document. There's a stement that the advisory comittee has to have a portion that's less than a number of people being paid by dat project. So a 5050 split of people that aren't funded by Dat?
- Jessica: The idea is that less than half can't be paid to be work on Dat. Wouldn't be too difficult since there aren't a lot of people being paid right now and not a lot of funds left. Just to make sure that the committee has some amount of oversight to the project.
- Sam: happy to help with the advisory comittee, happy with chairman role or rotating chairman role.
- Frando: Going to go through list and everyone can say if they're interested.
- Martin: before we go through it, another question: RUnning the foundation and getting the connection to CS&S, I would like to hear from people who are most influential in the community mafintosh and paul, what the goal would be before peopel sign up
- Paul: The question of the future of the foundation has a lot to do with how to organize the projects building on hypercore. Been starting to discuss. THinking of splitting so that hyperdrive is one project kappa core another and this is an umbrella. I think before we figure out what these are it'd be hard to know what the role would be and what the advisory comittee would do.
- cblgh: Interested in where the conversation is, haven't sen in the dat channel
- paul: Talked to Karissa, she was gonna talk to kappa-core folks.
- Frando: Reguarding the question of the dat foundation, Karissa and Joe had the role of making the foundation a thing, but that doesn't reflect the situation. We talked about reforming around this consortium and using the foundation to get funding and manage funding and do conferences but not be involved in technical decisions and stuff like that. If I understand Paul correctly, we should figure this out before putting together the comittee.
- Paul: Yes that's correct
- Mauve: I'd like to discuss in the open instead of back channels
- cblgh: Disagree and agree with Mauve. With people doing stuff, there's a question of "What is dat" and it'd be good to have a call of people that are interested. Summarize the results. That could be a way to go forward.
- Frando: We could postpone the advisory comittee question for another week. Have a more public forum or public discussion where we discuss the question of the dat foundation as an umbrella for the hyper spec or something like that.
- cblgh: also would be good to have a deadline for the advisory committe question so we dont punt it into infinity e.g. a decision will have been made by may 1 
- Sam: Not sure I see why this is a blocker for what's discussed in setting up the advisory comittee for the foundation. The foundation is mostly a funding vehicle for things in the ecosystem, it might get political for what gets funding and what does not. THis other decision is more what the consortium is for.
- Martin: It's stressful if you don't know what you'd be mainting for. Worried about people taking responsability for something they don't quite understand. We should iron out relationships for projects. This is a position where dat is weak at. Stuff just happens, how things are built and what's prioritized grow naurally. FUnding is not a blocker in order to get the CS&S liason relationship. Do a poll get people and do a limited lifetime until we iron stuff out and go on
- Mauve: I don't think the Foundation should be making decisions, more of a steward. For example if cabal wants
- Frando: We should have another discussion. We should decide next facilitator and agenda items.
- Mauve: We should talk about "What is Dat", revisit Advisory comittee, review results of polls
- Frando: Who will facilitate next meting?
- Sam: I can do it next week.

---

## Technical Meeting Notes

- Pfraze: What's the high level latest of past two weeks
- Mafintosh: Doing a push on performance. It's not been bad but want it to be better. Our requirements are - at the bottom, does the thing work, if yes, does it work okay, is it then fast? All of our time was going into "Does it work", now moving on to "make it faster". Andrew has been compiling benchmarks. Test cases for common patterns people have. "How long does it take to read x files" "what if you have x latency". In the new version of HYperdrive 10 - we changed the core data strucutre to be a HAMT, the old one was naive. This has the benefit of running at logN time. Even with log time if you have a lot of round trips it can be slow. Doing ticks with hypercore extesnions to do remote cache warmup. That means it's very fast now, found a bug in it, since it's an extesnion it doesn't matter, jsut a bit slower. Fixing that bug. Everything is looking really good.
- Frando: Question: Is this extension directly in hyperdrive?
- Mafintosh: It's in hypertrie, it's an extension for lookups. There's a filename called (??extension) that does warmups. Does cache stuff, auto enables. Feel free to shoot qustions my way, it's really cool stuff
- Andrew: Mainly looking at performance the past week, stability has been good, haven't had miuch issues
- Mafintosh: Going a few weeks without issues
- Andrew: has been fun with Beaker - really useful for group applications. Colalborative group wiki, you can sync by pulling updates from members of the wiki. Surfaced issues with latency. Paul's in austin so the round trip is very noticiable. Channel open latency
- Mafintosh: Spending too many round trips for the core connection to opening a hypercore channel. The number of round trips is 7 from channel to getting data. For subsequent it's only one. It's only initial latency. Speccing out ways to getting down to 2 or 3. If you have a roundtrip of 100 or 200 ms you can save a second.
- Pfrazee: Initial load is 5 to 10 seconds. It'd be great to get down the time. Reliability has been great, haven't had to worry about connecting. Never get a flat out 404.
- Mafintosh: Same, haven't had a connection fail yet, it works every time.
- Andrewosh: The 5-10 latency is the first channel open for a peer since we're running with a peer across the globe, once we connect to paul and open a channel in the daemon any subsequent requests will be fast.
- Mafintosh: For the latency work it's in hypercore. Main perf that's working quite well is amazingly fast ??? with the new updating things we've done. round tripping in a datacenter. General performance is really good.
- Andrew: Killer thing that helped was the groups.
- Pfrazee: Not on the call, but in the last dev diary
- Andrew: That's really fun. Started informally - mounting each others drives - software that takes advantage of that and everybody mounting in a group drive makes it fun and useful. Hopefully will ahve a private beta soon to show that off.
- Mafintosh: Looking in heavy handed garbage collection (deletes), looking into that a lot. Lots of data in the group drives, right now the strategy is after a while destroying from the hypercore without shutting down. Thinking of doing the GC inline, delete parts of the file. Since hypercore stores all the data in one virutal file, if you wanna unlink a file you need to unlink a portion of the file. We can eventually run on pretty low stortage reqs.
- BUch of QA I didn't write down
- Mafintosh: TL;DR, groups are cool. GOnna have a post soon. Best bug we've had where you would clone a drive and delete all your data and dump a copy of a book on how to make computers. Only deleted one of our coworkers data.





### Dat Event Dates
Poll: https://www.strawpoll.me/19414155/r

**Current top 3:**
* proposal 5: a weekend in august. **8 votes (27%)**
* proposal 3: in Berlin after jsconf EU (june 1-2 / mon-tue) so (thu) june 4 - (sun) jun 6. **7 votes (23%)**
* proposal 2: last weekend of june, june 26 (fri) until (sun) june 28. **6 votes (20%)**

TODO List 
https://hackmd.io/gcIN6U_XQm6ogmGoQ-EBeg 

